# Predicting Airbnb Price in Hong Kong Using Machine Learning and Deep Learning Models

Founded in 2008, Airbnb expanded significantly in the past 10 years with $35 Billion market value and annual $2.6 Billion revenue in 2017. Airbnb now has over four million listings in 65,000 cities across 191 countries. 
Hong Kong, a special administrative region locates in the southern China, is a world financial hub and alpha+ world city. Tourism in Hong Kong is very developed with tourists from various countries. One interesting fact about Hong Kong is that the hotel price in Hong Kong is extremely high due to the fact that general price is very high in Hong Kong. So many travelers consider using Airbnb when visiting Hong Kong. The density of Airbnb in Hong Kong is very high with more than 10000 Airbnb places in such a small area. So, Airbnb competition is in a very high level in Hong Kong. Therefore, it is important to provide right price for Airbnb hosts in order to win in the competition.

## Related Works

The project is inspired by a project named Predicting Airbnb Prices with Machine Learning and Deep Learning from Laura Lewis. The project can be found in GitHub (https://github.com/L-Lewis/Airbnb-neural-network-price-prediction) and Toward Data Science (https://towardsdatascience.com/predicting-airbnb-prices-with-machine-learning-and-deep-learning-f46d44afb8a6). Laura used both XGBoost (Machine Learning) and Neural Network (Deep Learning) and found that XGBoost is better when predicting the price with 73% R-Square. According to the model, the most important feature is how many people the property accommodates.
Modelling Airbnb prices in London using different Machine Learning models (Random Forest, Gradient Boosting, Neural Network), a research project done by Caroline Barret, also used machine learning to predict Airbnb price. The project could be found in GitHub (https://github.com/CarolineBarret/Modelling-Airbnb-Prices). The researcher used random forest model, gradient boosting and neural network to predict the price. Models could be measured by Median Absolute Error and Mean Squared Error. Random Forest and XGBoost gave the best results on the testing set.
Another research Exploring & Machine Learning for Airbnb Listings in Toronto (https://towardsdatascience.com/exploring-machine-learning-for-airbnb-listings-in-toronto-efdbdeba2644) done by Susan Li predicted the Airbnb price in Toronto. Susan used Random Forest Regressor model and LightGBM to predict price and use RMSE and R-square to test the efficiency of the model. Based on the result of RMSE and R-Square, researchers choose LightGBM model as the best model which explains 62.4% of the variability in listing price.

## Methodology

The process of this project includes data cleansing, data pre-processing, data visualization (Exploratory Data Analysis), data splitting (Training, Validation and Prediction) and modeling (Including but not limited to Random forest model, XGBoost model and Neural Network model). Based on the key metrics (RMSE, MAE, R-Square) comparison, I will be able to choose the best model for prediction.

